Foreword
We all know he technical documentation stuff like changelogs, part lists, readmes and so on. While it is really important to have this stuff, it often lacks information on the reasons behind a project-, design- or tool decision.
Thus I decided make a "PROJECT DIARY", where I want to write down the thoughts behind all those small and big decisions and development steps.

2023-09-15
It wasn't an easy decision to switch from OpenSCAD to FreeCAD for modeling all the mechanical stuff. While I was able to do quite complex parametrical modeling with OpenSCAD, I struggled a bit when it came down to adding new features to a already complex part.
Thus, I picked up the recommendation from a friend, trying FreeCAD (Thanks, Ralph!). It took me some days to figure out, how I can design/model in an efficient way, but now I am confident, it's a good decision to switch over to FreeCAD.
I already managed to re-model the basic shutter mechanics (shutter blades, shutter body, curve ring, motor gear), but there's still a lot to learn. While some tutorial stuff was really important to jump on the train, I am a little bit on the impatient side - which lead me to abandoning the (good) tutorials and instead just digging into my own prototyping...

2023-09-16
Today just re-modeling the lens adapter for my Lomo RF-3/RF-4 barrel lenses. On first sight this should have been just porting my older adapter model from OpenSCAD to FreeCAD. And indeed, while the final adapter looks almost the same as the former OpenSCAD one, it is once again a completely parametric model. Except for the thread.
After realizing that FreeCAD has a "hole" feature which can also model threads, I had to learn that there is no way to get a "non-standard" thread modeled with it. But... that bespoke thread is defined in DIN13-4, but not with its pitch in the ISO standards which are used for the thread generator in FreeCAD.
Even worse, I had to learn that there is a way to customize the "hole cut" via JSON file or even custom input, but the thread sizes are hard coded in the FeatureHole.cpp file and thus would require building FreeCad from its sources to get just another thread pitch. Yes, this is a rant towards the FreeCAD developers.
Why the hell does a software developer hard code long lists of thread parameters into the app instead of reading them from a separate (and customizable) file?
For now I am stuck with the wrong thread pitch. Or I do this thread "the old way" by extruding it, but this will require some more tutorials and a bit of mathematics. But not on a sunday afternoon.
And while this thread episode was a bit annoying, I am really appreciating some other FreeCAD features. Modeling and handling an assembly is so much easier when you have your complete assembly in your working space (I know that I could achieve this also in OpenSCAD, but it would be so much harder...). 
